I just want to point out there's a whole
series on YouTube too around building
a full platformer, which I think at
the end it becomes like a clone of
Super Mario Brothers 3 towards the end,
or some along those lines.
That's definitely worth
taking a look as well.
It's ten hours of stuff.
I want to show you about some
of the other things you can do.
Some of these we'll just kind of
take a look at some of the code and
all of this is available and
will always be available both the full
working playgrounds, but then also some of
the step by steps of some of the stuff
we also kind of talked about as well.
Those sections are like if we go here,
check it out.
These all live in the extensions part.
So none of these are available normally.
So I think it's fun to
treat them like extensions.
There's this idea of a pen tool,
and let's actually do that.
I'll show you an example.
Pen tool is basically, there is a limit
to the number of sprites you can have on
a page of some kind of performance pieces.
If you wanna literally just be able to
draw shapes and do graphics with vectors,
you can use the pen tool.
And we've got some really kinda of
cool examples around that as well.
So we can take a pen and
it's basically you can
erase stuff you can basically move
to a given point on your screen.
So like we know the coordinate grid,
you can set the pen size and
color you put the pen down.
You move the pen, I'm explaining
how a pen works to you, right?
Or a marker or anything along those lines.
You move the pen, you pick it up.
That's what picking up a pen does.
You can move it somewhere else,
you can put it down,
you can change the color of a pen,
but it opens up another hole,
like before we've just
moved Sprite around, right?
So I can take one where I,
put the pen down.
I changed his color on every tick.
If you look at this,
we start when the green flag is clicked
erase all set the pen size to 10.
Why not?
This is the setup.
Set the pen color to red.
Go to negative 40 y zero.
Put the pen down for 100 times move it
one step and change the pen color by one,
right?
And that will move across the color
spectrum and draw it onto your Canvas.
And again you can get a little bit
crazier with the code where you
can like set move go all the way to
the up upper left corner of the screen
put you know put the pen down until you've
hit the one course of this y-position.
So repeat until you hit the bottom, right,
put the pen down repeat until
you hit the right side and
then go ahead move it down and keep going,
so what you end up with is this.
Right?
And that's kind of using code to make art.
Obviously very simple art in this case,
but like that's all happening through
programming the pen to kind of like
do the things that you want, right?
So you could have it theoretically,
like make cool geometric shapes and
stuff along those lines as well.
In fact, I'll show you that.
I think I have that ready to rock as well,
that you can see as well.
So we go in here.
I'll actually show you this one,
which is in the platformer,
we saw that we can actually have
those custom blocks take what
in JavaScript we might call arguments and
Scratch call them inputs.
Which is draw a polygon with how many
sides and how many lengths for each side.
And all it does is divide 360 by the
number of sides and draw for that length.
Seems like a relatively
simple piece of code, right?
I can, however, say, okay, do this seven
times or however many times, right?
Do it for a three-sided polygon, also
known by some people as a triangle, right?
Then go do it change the color go do it
for a four-sided one some people call that
a square, all the way up to a pentagon so
on and so forth.
And you draw something
that's a bunch of squares,
you can draw something like this as
well we saw in the very beginning.
All right, and
that's all from like programming it.
And again, that's simply a lot of
stuff we saw from the platformer, or
some of the previous games that didn't
go in up to a 20 sided polygon, right?
You can go ahead and that's really just
you bump that number from seven to 20,
you get the larger one.
It will go through and
be able to like just draw those with,
honestly, this code operate
this custom block, right?
Just goes through draws each one over and
over.
So not only can you make games,
you can make little art projects.
There's a music extension in there as
well, where you can have a drum kit.
Again, I don't believe this thing
actually supports sound while I'm around,
but when you're along with your parents,
I'm sure it does.
And you can do all of that kind of stuff.
I've just gonna be blissfully
ignorant about all of that.